docs/docs/firmware/state-monitor-esp32.md, before:

---
tags: ["OXRS-SHA-RCESP32", "URC", "RACK32"]
---
# State Monitor ESP32
<p class="maker">by <b>Ben Jones</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-SHA-STATEMONITOR-ESP32-FW

## Introduction
A binary state monitor for DIY home automation projects.

This system uses UTP cable (typically Cat-5e because it's cheap) to connect binary sensors to a central controller. The sensors can be buttons or switches mounted in wall plates for lighting control, reed sensors attached to doors or windows, PIR sensors for motion detection, or anything else that reports a binary state.

It also supports rotary encoders (using 2 data lines) to allow up/down control for media player volume, light dimming, etc.

---

### How does it work?
When an input state change is detected an MQTT message is published to the configured MQTT broker for further processing by your home automation system.

Each port can monitor up to 4 channels and are numbered:

|INDEX|PORT|CHANNEL|TYPE |RJ45 Pin|
|:-----|:----|:-------|:-----|:--------|
|1    |1   |1      |Input|1       |
|2    |1   |2      |Input|2       |
|3    |1   |3      |Input|3       |
|4    |1   |4      |Input|6       |
|5    |2   |1      |Input|1       |
|6    |2   |2      |Input|2       |
|7    |2   |3      |Input|3       |
|8    |2   |4      |Input|6       |
|...  |    |       |     |        |

The firmware is designed to run on hardware using MCP23017 I/O buffer chips via I2C, e.g. the [Light Switch Controller](https://github.com/SuperHouse/LSC).

A single I2C bus can only support up to a maximum of 8x MCP23017 chips (addresses `0x20-0x27`). Therefore the maximum number of supported inputs is 128 (i.e. 8x MCP23017s * 16x I/O pins), or 32 ports.

## Configuration
### Inputs
Each INPUT can be configured by publishing an MQTT message to this topic:
```
[PREFIX/]conf/CLIENTID[/SUFFIX]
```
where:
- `PREFIX`: Optional topic prefix if required
- `CLIENTID`: Client id of device, defaults to `osm-<MACADDRESS>`
- `SUFFIX`: Optional topic suffix if required
    
The message payload should be JSON.

|Key|Mandatory|Value|Default|
|---|---------|-----|-------|
|`index`|Mandatory|Index of the input to configure|N/A|
|`type`|Optional|Either `button`, `contact`, `rotary`, `switch` or `toggle`|`switch`|
|`invert`|Optional|Either `true` or `false`|`false` <Badge text="non-inverted"/>|

::: warning
Inverting a normally-open (NO) button input will result in a constant stream of `hold` events!
:::

### Examples
To configure input 4 to be a contact sensor:
``` json
{ 
  "index": 4, 
  "type": "contact" 
}
```

To configure input 7 to be an inverted button:
``` json
{ 
  "index": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": true
}
```

::: tip
You can configure multiple inputs in a single message by publishing a JSON array of configuration payloads.
:::

::: tip
A retained message will ensure the device auto-configures on startup.
:::

## Events
An input EVENT is reported to a topic of the form:
```
[PREFIX/]stat/CLIENTID[/SUFFIX]
```
where; 
- `PREFIX`:   Optional topic prefix if required
- `CLIENTID`: Client id of device, defaults to `osm-<MACADDRESS>`
- `SUFFIX`:   Optional topic suffix if required

The message payload is JSON and contains:

|Key|Value|
|---|-----|
|`port`|Port this event occured on (1-32)|
|`channel`|Channel this event occured on (1-4)|
|`index`|Index of this event (1-128)|
|`type`|Event type (see below)|
|`event`|Event (see below)|

|Event Type|Event|
|----------|-----|
|`button`  | `single`, `double`, `triple`, `quad`, `penta`, or `hold` |
|`contact` | `open` or `closed` |
|`rotary`  | `up` or `down` |
|`switch`  | `on` or `off` |
|`toggle`  | `toggle` |

### Examples
A contact opening on input 7;
```json
{ 
  "port": 2, 
  "channel": 3, 
  "index": 7, 
  "type": "contact", 
  "event": "open" 
}
```

A triple button click on input 4;
```json
{ 
  "port": 1, 
  "channel": 4, 
  "index": 4, 
  "type": "button", 
  "event": "triple" 
}
```


## Downloads
Download the latest version of the firmware on [Github](https://github.com/SuperHouse/OXRS-SHA-StateMonitor-ESP32-FW).


## Supported Hardware
This firmware is compatible with the [Light Switch Controller](https://github.com/SuperHouse/LSC) (LSC) and is designed to run on the [RACK32](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html) as part of the [OXRS](https://oxrs.io) eco-system.

The LSC hardware provides 12V power down the cable, which can be used for powering sensors (e.g. PIRs), or illuminating LEDs.

The sensors or switches should pull one of 4 INPUT wires in the cable to GND to indicate that they have been activated. 

The LSC hardware has physical pull up resistors to pull the INPUT wires high and detects when they are pulled low.

The RJ45 pinout for each port is;

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |


#### Credits
 * Jonathan Oxer <jon@oxer.com.au>
 * Ben Jones <https://github.com/sumnerboy12>
 * Moin <https://github.com/moinmoin-sh>


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 SuperHouse Automation Pty Ltd [www.superhouse.tv](www.superhouse.tv)

The software portion of this project is licensed under the Simplified
BSD License. The "licence" folder within this project contains a
copy of this license in plain text format.

Commit message:

remove firmware code prefix from mqtt client ids add mcpInternalPullups config option for state monitor

docs/docs/firmware/state-monitor-esp32.md, after:

---
tags: ["OXRS-SHA-RCESP32", "URC", "RACK32"]
---
# State Monitor ESP32
<p class="maker">by <b>Ben Jones</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-SHA-STATEMONITOR-ESP32-FW

## Introduction
A binary state monitor for DIY home automation projects.

This system uses UTP cable (typically Cat-5e because it's cheap) to connect binary sensors to a central controller. The sensors can be buttons or switches mounted in wall plates for lighting control, reed sensors attached to doors or windows, PIR sensors for motion detection, or anything else that reports a binary state.

It also supports rotary encoders (using 2 data lines) to allow up/down control for media player volume, light dimming, etc.

---

### How does it work?
When an input state change is detected an MQTT message is published to the configured MQTT broker for further processing by your home automation system.

Each port can monitor up to 4 channels and are numbered:

|INDEX|PORT|CHANNEL|TYPE |RJ45 Pin|
|:-----|:----|:-------|:-----|:--------|
|1    |1   |1      |Input|1       |
|2    |1   |2      |Input|2       |
|3    |1   |3      |Input|3       |
|4    |1   |4      |Input|6       |
|5    |2   |1      |Input|1       |
|6    |2   |2      |Input|2       |
|7    |2   |3      |Input|3       |
|8    |2   |4      |Input|6       |
|...  |    |       |     |        |

The firmware is designed to run on hardware using MCP23017 I/O buffer chips via I2C, e.g. the [Light Switch Controller](https://github.com/SuperHouse/LSC).

A single I2C bus can only support up to a maximum of 8x MCP23017 chips (addresses `0x20-0x27`). Therefore the maximum number of supported inputs is 128 (i.e. 8x MCP23017s * 16x I/O pins), or 32 ports.

## Configuration
The device can be configured by publishing an MQTT message to this topic:
```
[PREFIX/]conf/CLIENTID[/SUFFIX]
```
where:
- `PREFIX`: Optional topic prefix if required
- `CLIENTID`: Client id of device, defaults to `<MACADDRESS>`
- `SUFFIX`: Optional topic suffix if required
    
The message payload should be JSON.

### Device
Some hardware may have external pull-ups (resistors) hard-wired on each MCP input. Others (like the earlier versions of the SuperHouse LSC boards) will have no external pull-ups, meaning we have to use the internal pull-ups in the MCP chips themselves.

By default the firmware assumes there are external pull-ups, since this is what the current versions of the SuperHouse LSC boards have. To use the internal pull-ups on the MCP chips publish the following message to the configuration topic;

```json
{
  "mcpInternalPullups": true
}
```

### Inputs
The `type` and `invert` state can be configured for each individual INPUT.

|Key|Mandatory|Value|Default|
|---|---------|-----|-------|
|`index`|Mandatory|Index of the input to configure|N/A|
|`type`|Optional|Either `button`, `contact`, `rotary`, `switch` or `toggle`|`switch`|
|`invert`|Optional|Either `true` or `false`|`false` <Badge text="non-inverted"/>|

::: warning
Inverting a normally-open (NO) button input will result in a constant stream of `hold` events!
:::

### Examples
To configure input 4 to be a contact sensor:
``` json
{ 
  "index": 4, 
  "type": "contact" 
}
```

To configure input 7 to be an inverted button:
``` json
{ 
  "index": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": true
}
```

::: tip
You can configure multiple inputs in a single message by publishing a JSON array of configuration payloads.
:::

::: tip
A retained message will ensure the device auto-configures on startup.
:::

## Events
An input EVENT is reported to a topic of the form:
```
[PREFIX/]stat/CLIENTID[/SUFFIX]
```
where; 
- `PREFIX`:   Optional topic prefix if required
- `CLIENTID`: Client id of device, defaults to `<MACADDRESS>`
- `SUFFIX`:   Optional topic suffix if required

The message payload is JSON and contains:

|Key|Value|
|---|-----|
|`port`|Port this event occured on (1-32)|
|`channel`|Channel this event occured on (1-4)|
|`index`|Index of this event (1-128)|
|`type`|Event type (see below)|
|`event`|Event (see below)|

|Event Type|Event|
|----------|-----|
|`button`  | `single`, `double`, `triple`, `quad`, `penta`, or `hold` |
|`contact` | `open` or `closed` |
|`rotary`  | `up` or `down` |
|`switch`  | `on` or `off` |
|`toggle`  | `toggle` |

### Examples
A contact opening on input 7;
```json
{ 
  "port": 2, 
  "channel": 3, 
  "index": 7, 
  "type": "contact", 
  "event": "open" 
}
```

A triple button click on input 4;
```json
{ 
  "port": 1, 
  "channel": 4, 
  "index": 4, 
  "type": "button", 
  "event": "triple" 
}
```


## Downloads
Download the latest version of the firmware on [Github](https://github.com/SuperHouse/OXRS-SHA-StateMonitor-ESP32-FW).


## Supported Hardware
This firmware is compatible with the [Light Switch Controller](https://github.com/SuperHouse/LSC) (LSC) and is designed to run on the [RACK32](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html) as part of the [OXRS](https://oxrs.io) eco-system.

The LSC hardware provides 12V power down the cable, which can be used for powering sensors (e.g. PIRs), or illuminating LEDs.

The sensors or switches should pull one of 4 INPUT wires in the cable to GND to indicate that they have been activated. 

The LSC hardware has physical pull up resistors to pull the INPUT wires high and detects when they are pulled low.

The RJ45 pinout for each port is;

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |


#### Credits
 * Jonathan Oxer <jon@oxer.com.au>
 * Ben Jones <https://github.com/sumnerboy12>
 * Moin <https://github.com/moinmoin-sh>


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 SuperHouse Automation Pty Ltd [www.superhouse.tv](www.superhouse.tv)

The software portion of this project is licensed under the Simplified
BSD License. The "licence" folder within this project contains a
copy of this license in plain text format.
