docs/guides/writing-docs/templates/firmware-template.md, before:

---
tags: ["TAG1", "TAG2", "TAG3"]
---
# Firmware Name (Blank Template)
<p class="maker">by <b>Maker Name goes here</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-<Maker-Designator\>-<Firmware-Abbreviation\>

## Introduction
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham. Shank brisket ball tip tri-tip cow jerky shoulder chicken, corned beef alcatra filet mignon. Biltong jerky picanha ham hock swine. Ham hock shank corned beef, porchetta strip steak venison sirloin turducken hamburger ham rump jerky. Frankfurter pork tri-tip beef ribs meatloaf picanha pastrami doner burgdoggen.

---

### How does it work?
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

| Col 1         | Col 2        | Col 3      |
| :------------ |:-------------| :--------- |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |

Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

## Configuration
### Sub Title
Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta.

```sh
command-example.sh
```

Some attribute text:
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here


#### Code Examples

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```c
void setup() {
  // put your setup code here, to run once:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial.println("Hello World!");
}

void loop() {
  // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:

}
```


Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```json
{ 
  "input": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": "on" 
}
```

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

**NOTE: Sirloin turducken hamburger (NO) Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon `LOOK` burgdoggen!**

## Supported Hardware
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)

Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

### Pinout Reference

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |

---

#### Credits
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>

 ---


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

---
# Get started creating or editing your first Firmware Page.
::: tip Firmware Document Template
Copy the template syntax below for the above page temaplte
:::

`````md
---
tags: ["TAG1", "TAG2", "TAG3"]
---
# Firmware Name (Blank Template)
<p class="maker">by <b>Maker Name goes here</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-<Maker-Designator\>-<Firmware-Abbreviation\>

## Introduction
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham. Shank brisket ball tip tri-tip cow jerky shoulder chicken, corned beef alcatra filet mignon. Biltong jerky picanha ham hock swine. Ham hock shank corned beef, porchetta strip steak venison sirloin turducken hamburger ham rump jerky. Frankfurter pork tri-tip beef ribs meatloaf picanha pastrami doner burgdoggen.

---

### How does it work?
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

| Col 1         | Col 2        | Col 3      |
| :------------ |:-------------| :--------- |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |

Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

## Configuration
### Sub Title
Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta.

```sh
command-example.sh
```

Some attribute text:
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here


#### Code Examples

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```c
void setup() {
  // put your setup code here, to run once:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial.println("Hello World!");
}

void loop() {
  // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:

}
```


Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```json
{ 
  "input": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": "on" 
}
```

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

**NOTE: Sirloin turducken hamburger (NO) Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon `LOOK` burgdoggen!**

## Supported Hardware
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)

Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

### Pinout Reference

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |

---

#### Credits
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>

 ---


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

---


`````

Commit message:

add download links to firmware pages

docs/guides/writing-docs/templates/firmware-template.md, after:

---
tags: ["TAG1", "TAG2", "TAG3"]
---
# Firmware Name (Blank Template)
<p class="maker">by <b>Maker Name goes here</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-<Maker-Designator\>-<Firmware-Abbreviation\>

## Introduction
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham. Shank brisket ball tip tri-tip cow jerky shoulder chicken, corned beef alcatra filet mignon. Biltong jerky picanha ham hock swine. Ham hock shank corned beef, porchetta strip steak venison sirloin turducken hamburger ham rump jerky. Frankfurter pork tri-tip beef ribs meatloaf picanha pastrami doner burgdoggen.

---

### How does it work?
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

| Col 1         | Col 2        | Col 3      |
| :------------ |:-------------| :--------- |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |

Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

## Configuration
### Sub Title
Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta.

```sh
command-example.sh
```

Some attribute text:
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here


#### Code Examples

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```c
void setup() {
  // put your setup code here, to run once:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial.println("Hello World!");
}

void loop() {
  // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:

}
```


Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```json
{ 
  "input": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": "on" 
}
```

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

**NOTE: Sirloin turducken hamburger (NO) Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon `LOOK` burgdoggen!**

## Downloads
Download the latest version of the firmware on [Github](https://github.com/OXRS-IO/OXRS-IO-WEBSITE).

## Supported Hardware
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)

Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

### Pinout Reference

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |

---

#### Credits
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>

 ---


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

---
# Get started creating or editing your first Firmware Page.
::: tip Firmware Document Template
Copy the template syntax below for the above page temaplte
:::

`````md
---
tags: ["TAG1", "TAG2", "TAG3"]
---
# Firmware Name (Blank Template)
<p class="maker">by <b>Maker Name goes here</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-<Maker-Designator\>-<Firmware-Abbreviation\>

## Introduction
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham. Shank brisket ball tip tri-tip cow jerky shoulder chicken, corned beef alcatra filet mignon. Biltong jerky picanha ham hock swine. Ham hock shank corned beef, porchetta strip steak venison sirloin turducken hamburger ham rump jerky. Frankfurter pork tri-tip beef ribs meatloaf picanha pastrami doner burgdoggen.

---

### How does it work?
Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

| Col 1         | Col 2        | Col 3      |
| :------------ |:-------------| :--------- |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |
| Row data     | Row data      |  Row data  |

Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. 

## Configuration
### Sub Title
Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta.

```sh
command-example.sh
```

Some attribute text:
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here
- `Attribute here`: Explanation Text here


#### Code Examples

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```c
void setup() {
  // put your setup code here, to run once:
  Serial.begin(9600);
  Serial.println("Hello World!");
}

void loop() {
  // put your main code here, to run repeatedly:

}
```


Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

```json
{ 
  "input": 7, 
  "type": "button", 
  "invert": "on" 
}
```

Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon picanha spare ribs tongue burgdoggen pork chop cow ham.

**NOTE: Sirloin turducken hamburger (NO) Cupim drumstick swine venison short loin capicola bacon `LOOK` burgdoggen!**

## Supported Hardware
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)
- Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. [OXRS Internal Hardware Link](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)

Shoulder picanha tongue cow kevin. Pig alcatra chicken jowl, turducken flank buffalo bresaola burgdoggen ground round venison shoulder pancetta. Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

Beef ribs hamburger sirloin brisket, capicola drumstick cupim sausage shank burgdoggen swine.

### Pinout Reference

|PIN|DESCRIPTION|
|:--|:----------|
|1  |INPUT 1    |
|2  |INPUT 2    |
|3  |INPUT 3    |
|4  |VIN        |
|5  |VIN        |
|6  |INPUT 4    |
|7  |GND        |
|8  |GND        |

---

#### Credits
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>
 - Makers Name <email address or website\>

 ---


#### License
Copyright 2020-2021 Sirloin chislic beef ribs turkey biltong. Ground round fatback frankfurter meatball, venison jowl capicola ham hock meatloaf. Buffalo boudin meatball ball tip spare ribs. Venison cow pig shank pastrami, chislic ham. 

---


`````
