docs/docs/hardware/README.md, before:

---
tags: [""]
---
# Hardware

Part of the Core of OXRS is the hardware being offered - the other part being the fantasic firmware and software that has been created so that devices all act in familier ways.
See the chart below or the navigation bar to see indepth information about Hardware options

## Options

| Controllers | Input-Devices | Output-Devices | Input-Output-Devices | Shields |
| :---------: | :-----------: | :------------: | :------------------: | :-----: |
| [Rack32](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.md) | [I2CRJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/I2CRJ45.md)| [DIN Relay Driver 4ch](/docs/hardware/output-devices/DIN-Relay-Driver-4ch.md) | [Sense RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-output-devices/SenseRJ45.md) |  [Rack32 KNX Shield](/docs/hardware/sheilds/rack32-knx-shield.md) |
| [Room8266](/docs/hardware/controllers/room8266.md) | [CBUS To RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/CBUS-to-RJ45.md)| [PWM Controllers](/docs/hardware/output-devices/pwm-controllers.md)  | [Smoke Detector SD 16 Port](/docs/hardware/input-output-devices/smoke-detector-sd-16port.md) |
| [Rack Fan Controller](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack-fan-controller.md) | [Rotary Encode To RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/rotary-encode-to-rj45.md) |
| | [Rotary Encode](/docs/hardware/input-devices/rotary-encode.md) |

Commit message:

fix broken link to KNX shield from hardware page tidy up hardware page intro

docs/docs/hardware/README.md, after:

---
tags: [""]
---
# Hardware

There is a growing list of hardware options available, some of which are listed below. These devices, coupled with OXRS firmware, provide the backbone of the OXRS eco-system. There are a number of different makers contributing designs, with online stores you can purchase from directly. 


| Controllers | Input-Devices | Output-Devices | Input-Output-Devices | Shields |
| :---------: | :-----------: | :------------: | :------------------: | :-----: |
| [Rack32](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.md) | [I2CRJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/I2CRJ45.md)| [DIN Relay Driver 4ch](/docs/hardware/output-devices/DIN-Relay-Driver-4ch.md) | [Sense RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-output-devices/SenseRJ45.md) |  [Rack32 KNX Shield](/docs/hardware/shields/rack32-knx-shield.md) |
| [Room8266](/docs/hardware/controllers/room8266.md) | [CBUS To RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/CBUS-to-RJ45.md)| [PWM Controllers](/docs/hardware/output-devices/pwm-controllers.md)  | [Smoke Detector SD 16 Port](/docs/hardware/input-output-devices/smoke-detector-sd-16port.md) |
| [Rack Fan Controller](/docs/hardware/controllers/rack-fan-controller.md) | [Rotary Encode To RJ45](/docs/hardware/input-devices/rotary-encode-to-rj45.md) |
| | [Rotary Encode](/docs/hardware/input-devices/rotary-encode.md) |
