docs/add-ons/accessibility/ac-tower-controller.md, before:

---
tags: [""]
---

# AC Smart Switch
<p class="maker">by <b>Austin's Creations</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-AC-towercontroller

<!-- Board Image -->
![Austin's Creations Tower Controller](/images/addons/ac-tower-controller.jpg)

<!-- Board Description -->
A Cutsom Tower Controller

This basic controller lets you control 12-24v analog common anode LED tower lights.

I'm personally using a tower light as an accessibility device because I'm hard of hearing.

## Features

- **ESP8266** microcontroller with **WiFi**.
- **10/100Mbps** Ethernet.
- 2.1mm power jack
- Screw Terminal that can be used for power input and output for your light
- 2x 4 pin jst sh connectors to match the Stemma / qwiic connector I2C standard.

## Supported Firmware
 - TODO

## Supported Libraries
 - TODO

## Additional Resources
- More info [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/Tower-Controller)

## Where to Buy
- Contact on Discord or website [WEBSITE](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)

## FAQs
:::
TODO - to supply some FAQ's
:::

::: tip Maker Info
**Maker:** Austin's Creations

**Link:** [https://www.austinscreations.ca/](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)
:::

## Compatible Hardware
- TODO

Commit message:

Big Content Update (#46)
Co-authored-by: Austin's Creations <you@example.com>

docs/add-ons/accessibility/ac-tower-controller.md, after:

---
tags: [""]
---

# AC Tower Controller
<p class="maker">by <b>Austin's Creations</b></p>

> SKU: OXRS-AC-towercontroller

<!-- Board Image -->
![Austin's Creations Tower Controller](/images/addons/ac-tower-controller.jpg)

<!-- Board Description -->
A Cutsom Tower Controller

This basic controller lets you control 12-24v analog common anode LED tower lights.

I'm personally using a tower light as an accessibility device because I'm hard of hearing.

## Features

- **ESP8266** microcontroller with **WiFi**.
- **10/100Mbps** Ethernet.
- 2.1mm power jack
- Screw Terminal that can be used for power input and output for your light
- 2x 4 pin jst sh connectors to match the Stemma / qwiic connector I2C standard.

## Supported Firmware
 - Firmware comes preloaded and can be configured via OXRS web UI
versions or firmware and nodered exampels can be found here: [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/Tower-Controller)
V1.0.2 supports wifi or ethernet, wifi can be used by setting a define at the top of the code - be sure to update the config file with wifi credentials

## Supported Libraries
 - [OXRS Sensor Library](/docs/libraries/esp-sensor-library.md), or veiw on [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/OXRS-AC-I2CSensors-ESP-LIB)

## Additional Resources
- More info [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/Tower-Controller)

## Where to Buy
- Contact on Discord or website [WEBSITE](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)

<!-- ## FAQs
:::
TODO - to supply some FAQ's
::: -->

::: tip Maker Info
**Maker:** Austin's Creations

**Link:** [https://www.austinscreations.ca/](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)
:::
