docs/docs/hardware/output-devices/pwm-controller.md, before:

---
tags: ["PWM", "LED","OXRS-AC-PWMcontroller"]
---
# PWM Controller
<p class="maker">by <b>Austin's Creations</b></p>

<!-- Board Image -->
![Austin's Creations PWM Controller](/images/oxrs-pwm-controller.jpg)

<!-- Board Description -->
Basic I2C Controller board that allows for 16bit PWM Control of N-Channel MOSFETS

## Features
- **Requires Compatible Controller to run firmware** see below for options
- 16 Channels control
- 6-PIN IDC I2C oxrs compatible connection
- 12-24v common andode led strip compatibility
- 30 volt 8 amp MOSFET per channel

## Supported Firmware
- OXRS-AC-LedController-ESP8266-FW [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/OXRS-AC-LedController-ESP8266-FW)
- OXRS-AC-LedController-ESP32-FW  [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/OXRS-AC-LedController-ESP32-FW)

## Additional Resources
- Additional Resource 1 [GITHUB](https://github.com/austinscreations/PWM-LED-Controller)

## Where to Buy
- Contact on Discord or website [WEBSITE](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)

## FAQs
:::
TODO - to supply some FAQ's
:::

::: tip Maker Info
**Maker:** Austin's Creations

**Link:** [https://www.austinscreations.ca/](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)
:::

## Compatible With
- room8266 [Link](https://oxrs.io/docs/hardware/controllers/room8266.html)
- rack32  [Link](https://oxrs.io/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)

Commit message:

fix Github repo names/urls for PCALedController firmware + general tidy up

docs/docs/hardware/output-devices/pwm-controller.md, after:

---
tags: ["PWM", "LED","OXRS-AC-PWMcontroller"]
---
# PWM Controller
<p class="maker">by <b>Austin's Creations</b></p>

<!-- Board Image -->
![Austin's Creations PWM Controller](/images/oxrs-pwm-controller.jpg)

<!-- Board Description -->
I2C controller board that provides 16bit PWM control of N-Channel MOSFETS using PCA9685 chips.

## Features
- **Requires Compatible Controller to run firmware** see below for options
- 16 channel control
- 6-PIN IDC I2C OXRS compatible connection
- 12-24V common andode led strip compatibility
- 30V 8A MOSFET per channel

## Supported Firmware
- ESP8266 firmware on [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/OXRS-AC-PCALedController-ESP8266-FW)
- ESP32 firmware on [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/OXRS-AC-PCALedController-ESP32-FW)

## Additional Resources
- Schematics and design files on [Github](https://github.com/austinscreations/PWM-LED-Controller)

## Where to Buy
- Contact on Discord or [website](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)

## FAQs
:::
TODO - to supply some FAQ's
:::

::: tip Maker Info
**Maker:** Austin's Creations

**Link:** [https://www.austinscreations.ca/](https://www.austinscreations.ca/)
:::

## Compatible With
- [Room8266](https://oxrs.io/docs/hardware/controllers/room8266.html)
- [Rack32](https://oxrs.io/docs/hardware/controllers/rack32.html)
