docs/index.md, before:

# Open eXtensible Rack System

The Open eXtensible Rack System (OXRS) is a convention for building
rack-mount devices using standardised chassis designs and modules.

It aims to make it easier for anyone to build their own rack-mount
devices by providing these foundational pieces in a modular form.

![OXRS prototype front](images/OXRS-prototype-1.jpg)

This convention grew out of DIY home automation systems developed
by members of the SuperHouse Automation Discord server, but also has
applications for industrial control, networking, audio, video, and
data center equipment.

Most rack-mount projects have some common elements, including:

 * Chassis
 * Display
 * Ethernet
 * USB
 * Power indicator

When individuals undertake DIY
rack-mount projects it's necessary to re-invent these foundational
elements before it's possible to create the specific functionality
required for the intended project.

The convention outlines mechanical dimensions for enclosures including
front panel cutouts and internal PCB mounts, allowing individual Makers
and companies to produce components that are at least partly compatible.

![OXRS prototype inside](images/OXRS-prototype-2.jpg)

Commit message:

Added link to Discord server.

docs/index.md, after:

# Open eXtensible Rack System

The Open eXtensible Rack System (OXRS) is a convention for building
rack-mount devices using standardised chassis designs and modules.

It aims to make it easier for anyone to build their own rack-mount
devices by providing these foundational pieces in a modular form.

![OXRS prototype front](images/OXRS-prototype-1.jpg)

This convention grew out of DIY home automation systems developed
by members of the SuperHouse Automation Discord server, but also has
applications for industrial control, networking, audio, video, and
data center equipment.

Most rack-mount projects have some common elements, including:

 * Chassis
 * Display
 * Ethernet
 * USB
 * Power indicator

When individuals undertake DIY
rack-mount projects it's necessary to re-invent these foundational
elements before it's possible to create the specific functionality
required for the intended project.

The convention outlines mechanical dimensions for enclosures including
front panel cutouts and internal PCB mounts, allowing individual Makers
and companies to produce components that are mechanically and electrically
compatible.

![OXRS prototype inside](images/OXRS-prototype-2.jpg)

To join in the discussion, see the SuperHouse Discord server at

  https://www.superhouse.tv/discord
